# Heart-Attack-Prediction

Heart disease is the major cause of deaths worldwide. To give treatment for heart disease, a lot of advanced technologies are used. In medical center it is the most common problem that many of medical persons do not have equal knowledge and expertise to treat their patient so they deduce their own decision and as a result it show poor outcome and sometime leads to death. To overcome these problems predictions of heart disease using machine learning algorithms and data mining techniques, it become easy to automatic diagnosis in hospitals as they are playing vital role in this regard. Heart disease can be predicted by performing analysis on patient’s different health parameters. There are different algorithm to predict heart disease like naïve Bayes, k Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Decision tree ,Artificial Neural Network(ANN).We have used different parameters to predict heart disease. Those parameters are Age, Gender, Cerebral palsey (CP), Gender, Cerebral palsey (CP), Blood Pressure (bp), Fasting blood sugar test (fbs) etc. In our research paper, we used built in dataset .we have implement the five different techniques with same dataset to predict heart disease These implemented algorithm are Naive Bayes, k Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Decision tree, Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Random Forest .This paper investigates that which technique gives more accuracy in predicting heart disease based on health parameters. Experiment show that Naïve Bayes has the highest accuracy of 88%.
Heart disease is the major cause of deaths globally. More people die annually from CVDs than from any other cause, an estimated 12 million people died from heart disease every year. Heart disease kills one person every 34 seconds in the United States. Heart attacks are often a tragic event and are the result of blocking blood flow to the heart or brain. People at risk of heart disease may show elevated blood pressure, glucose and lipid levels as well as stress. All of these parameters can be easily measured at home by basic health facilities. Coronary heart disease, Cardiomyopathy and Cardiovascular disease are the categories of heart disease. The word "heart disease" includes a variety of conditions that affect the heart and blood vessels and how the fluid gets into the bloodstream and circulates there in the body. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) causes many diseases, disability and death. Diagnosis of the disease is important and complex work in medicine. Medical diagnosis is considered as crucial but difficult task to be done efficiently and effectively . The automation of this task is very helpful.  Unfortunately all physicians are not experts in any subject specialists and beyond the scarcity of resources there some places. Data mining can be used to find hidden patterns and knowledge that may contribute to successful decision making. This plays a key role for healthcare professionals in making accurate decisions and providing quality services to the public. The approach provided by the health care organization to professionals who do not have more knowledge and skills is also very important. One of the main limitations of existing methods is the ability to draw accurate conclusions as needed. In our approach, we are using different data mining techniques and machine learning algorithms, Naïve Bayes, k Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Decision tree, Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Random Forest to predict the heart disease based on some health parameters.

Details of Attributes of data frame------------------------- 
age- in years
sex-(1 = male; 0 = female) 
cp- chest pain type 
trestbps- resting blood pressure (in mm Hg on admission to the hospital) 
chol- serum cholestoral in mg/dl 
fbs-(fasting blood sugar > 120 mg/dl) (1 = true; 0 = false) 
restecg-resting electrocardiographic results 
thalach-maximum heart rate achieved 
exang-exercise induced angina (1 = yes; 0 = no) 
oldpeak-ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest
slope-the slope of the peak exercise ST segment 
ca-number of major vessels (0-3) colored by flourosopy 
thal- 3 = normal; 6 = fixed defect; 7 = reversable defect
target- 1 or 0 . (0 refers no ,1 refers yes)

